Today we're reviewing the Axis 1400 PNG
P2. Yes, there is a disconnection
between the audio and the video because
I lost the audio files, unfortunately.
So, this is going to be a voiceover
review instead of an onboarding review,
but I'm still going to try and explain
the same feelings I felt when getting on
this foil for the very first time. I
never used this foil before. This was
really the the first time of me uh
getting on this foil. And the first
feeling is uh stability very very stable
especially because I tried it back to
back after it's younger brother the 1300
and this review is going to be also a
comparison with the 1300 as you can see
is uh immediately slower than the 1300
but you can immediately feel that it's
more efficient efficient sorry uh you
have to use less energy at each pump to
make it go forward. And
I quite like, like I said in the
previous video where I reviewed the
1300, the direction that Axis is taking,
especially for these beginner force.
They're going uh they're working with a
cumber rather than just going thicker
and thicker and slower and slower. And
that's very good because you you don't
denaturalize, if I can say that, the
pumping movement and you still keep a
very pleasant foil. You can see here
that my aluminum 16 mm mast. I mean, the
aluminum mast I tried it with is a a
little bendy uh in the turns for this
kind of foil with such a big uh span.
And yeah, definitely doesn't turn uh
that well as you can expect from a foil
of this size and for this program is
mainly for beginners, intermediates who
want to pump for longer distances. And
it does a really good job at that. But
of course, forget about uh forget about
um carving sharp and everything.
However, because the profile is so thin
and well um well designed, you can still
wake probably with it. I'm pretty sure I
wasn't able as as you could see to to do
that. But
um yeah, I'm I'm pretty sure you can
because again, the speed range is still
quite good. As you can see now, I'm
doing like a test pit. And as you can
see, pretty good um speed range. Nice
glide. And you probably saw the board
slightly pointing down uh when gliding.
That's probably something again with the
profile. They did some magic there
because um as you can see like even the
the angle of attack of the foil is
is very very small and pretty pretty
flat pretty even and when you glide it's
kind of downhill
uh and mind you my body is completely
flat. Anyways um as you can see it is
pretty pretty efficient as well. I
wasn't even riding that high. I was
running in circle. I was talking and
still I was able to um to go on without
any any problem. So if you are a
beginner and
maybe even intermediate and you're
looking for something a bit more uh long
distance, that's that's probably the way
to go. However, I probably wouldn't
really uh start directly directly with
this one unless you are a heavier
weight. The reason why I wouldn't really
necessarily start with the 1400 unless
again you're super heavy is because
with big foils as you know if you roll
it at the start you pretty much lose it
and you can forget about it because you
won't be able to to recover it to get to
get it back right. However, uh probably
because there there is no much volume
and surface at the tips, they kind of,
you know, did their best with this
problem that you have that you're facing
when when dealing with uh big front
links. And yeah, to be honest, I believe
that this is really the limit. I don't
really necessarily like huge foils until
at least for now because like I said, as
you can see, you can pretty much pump
this foil even without being super fit
for easily five um 7 minutes. Um
again, if you're not maybe talking and
you're not keeping your arm like this to
to to speak to the microphone and then
lose the files. But um yeah, like to be
honest, I believe that this is a very
good option. And I don't really uh see
how you you could even you could ever
need a bigger foil unless you really
want to have free foil, but then you can
probably get a beta foil, right? But
anyways, I believe this is really the
the sweet spot for for a foil
um between uh versatility and long
distance.
Um, I tried it with a crazy short
advanced fuselage and a progression uh
stab and it was fine but probably not
the easiest because it's already quite
sensitive because of the short advanced
fuse. So if you are starting with it
from scratch then I recommend you use a
um an ultra short advanced fuse fuse
sorry or even a um short advanced fuse
just to make it a little a little easier
a little more stable and as you progress
you can um you can maybe downsize the
the stab. Now, speaking about stabs,
because you know the market and
especially Ivonne, right? He's pretty
much the
um the the person that you you think
about if you're if you're thinking axis
pumping and he's going shorter and
shorter with the fuselage and smaller
and smaller with the stab. Um I
personally don't really find myself
going too much in that direction. I
prefer to have a more natural feeling, a
less hectic pumping, uh, and still the
possibility to carve sharp. Uh, because
at the end of the day, to be honest, at
least personally, maybe it's just again,
um, maybe I'm not pumping as much as him
or I don't know. But to be honest,
I I prefer a more normal sized fuselage
and stuff, at least for now. But if I'm
going to change my mind, I'm going to
keep you updated. That is why I wouldn't
really go shorter than the crazy short
when it comes to fuselage. And even the
stab, yes, you can maybe get one of the
bigger skinnies, but I wouldn't get
probably the super knife type of katana
like like pom pom stab. No, like keep it
easy. And and like how much do you
really gain in terms of drag?
It's marginal because the front wing
does the heavy lifting. The front wing
is the the big part. So even if the stab
is like 5% more efficient, I don't care
if I can get more stability and have a
less hectic pumping. I prefer that
rather than having a 5% more efficiency.
And again, maybe if you're mainly like
purely flatwater pumping, then maybe
that doesn't doesn't really apply that
much. But if you are waveing, if you are
if you are wave riding, if you are
downwinding, then I don't think that's
the shorter fuse in on the planet and
the smaller stab on the planet are
really the way to go. But again, maybe
it's just a personal preference. All
right, so who is this axis for? Is it
any good? And how does it compared to
the 1300? Like I said, if you're a
beginner and you're maybe over 90 kilos,
I would say really, then this is
probably the option for you over the
1300. If you're light, I would say
forget about starting on this oil.
If you are maybe on this Axis PNG 1150,
so the old series, and you are looking
for some more glide, some more pumping,
then you either get into these either
into the Art Pro 1400 141, sorry.
Now, in terms of how it compares to
1401, I couldn't try them back to back,
so I'm not going to really touch on that
too much because that will be like not
really fair, but um I felt that they're
pretty similar. Of course, um the 1401
is less stable because it's higher
aspect and lower surface surface area
and probably even thinner. It's got more
high-end, but I believe that the 1400
PNG,
it's a very valuable option because you
still get some of the benefits of the
1401 like long distance and glide, but
you still keep it quite um quite easy,
quite simple to to learn. So, you can
learn it definitely.
Um I would just recommend you get a
longer fuse and a smaller stab if you're
getting started with this foil.
And yeah, so that is pretty much it. And
in terms of how it compares to the 1300,
you lose definitely a bit of carving,
but you gain quite quite some uh long
distance. And the 1300 doesn't carve
that well anyways. So, you might as well
just get this one because anyways, you
don't like the like like the 1300, let's
say it's a you you're always going to
see the scores at the end of the video,
but the 1300 uh I'm not sure how much I
I scored it, but I would say it's really
like a six or six and a half, seven when
it comes to turning. Uh six and a half,
I believe. Um and this one, you know, is
one or two points below. not that big of
a difference. But the the long distance
though,
it's I would say a fair bit better than
the 1300. So again, you decide what to
go for. If you are maybe more into uh
waves or uh wakeing, then probably the
1300 the 1300 is a bit better. or if
you're lighter like I said. Okay,
because again because the the the
feeling of these foils is being quite
hard
if you go really big in surface and
you're in your light is going to be
quite uh difficult to to pump these f.
So yeah, I would say really go on your
weight what you're going to use this f
for and
if you prefer long distance over carving
and winding. Okay, that's that.
Drop in the comment any foil that you
would like me to review. And big massive
thank you to Peter first of all to let
me try this foil uh his foils and to um
Emmanuel from way out soon lake. If you
are from Italy, if you are if you end up
if you like if you happen in Italy in
central Italy close to Rome, there is
this lovely lake. is like a natural park
is a beautiful gorgeous place and they
are wing foiling, palm foiling, uh surf
skating. They're doing all sorts of
things and I I hosted my camp there with
him and it was amazing really really
nice person and lovely people. So and
amazing food. So if you're looking for a
wing foil palm foil food vacation
holiday, look no further than Lake Brano
Trevano Romano, close to Rome, Italy.
All right, I'll see you next time.